YUG CHAUHAN +91 8866583135
yugchauhan3135@gmail.com
Ahmedabad, India.
ABOUT ME
Innovative and analytical problem-solver with a strong passion for Data Science, AI, and emerging technologies. I
thrive on exploring new concepts and turning complex challenges into scalable, impactful solutions. With a strong
blend of technical expertise and creative thinking, I take a hands-on approach to solving real-world problems. A
collaborative team player with proven leadership abilities, I’m equally comfortable contributing within a group or
guiding teams toward shared goals. Eager to grow in a dynamic environment where I can apply my skills, adapt to
evolving technologies, and drive meaningful impact.
EDUCATION
Silver Oak University , Ahmedabad . 2022 - 2026
Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology | CGPA : 9.56
SKILLS
Languages & Libraries: Python, SQL, NumPy, Pandas, Scikit-learn, TensorFlow, Keras,, NLTK, spaCy
Visualization: Matplotlib, Seaborn, Plotly
Math & Stats: Probability, Statistics, Linear Algebra
Databases: MySQL
Tools: Jupyter, Google Colab, Github, VS Code
Soft Skills: Communication, Teamwork, Leadership, Fast Learner
PROJECTS
CNN-Based Plant Disease Detection App
Designed and trained a CNN model to detect plant diseases from leaf images.
Built a Streamlit app that predicts the disease name from an uploaded image and display short information.
Flight Fare Prediction App using ML & Streamlit
Built a web app to predict airline ticket prices using a trained Random Forest model.
Achieved R² score of 0.89 on validation data and deployed via Streamlit with modular preprocessing.
Apple Million Dataset Analysis using SQL
Analyzed large-scale Apple product sales data across stores using SQL queries.
Derived insights on top products, store performance, and sales trends.
Volcanic Eruption and Earthquake Data Analysis
Analyzed global volcanic eruption and earthquake data using Python, NumPy, Pandas.
Visualized trends and patterns using Seaborn and Matplotlib for insightful interpretation.
INTERNSHIPS
IBM SkillsBuilds
June , 2024 - August, 2024
Data Analytics Summer Internship Program
Analyzed large datasets to identify patterns and insights for business decision-making.
Worked with Pandas, NumPy and SQL for data cleaning ,manipulation and created interactive visualizations.
Infividhya
June , 2024 - July, 2024
Introduction to Data Science Summer Internship
Gained foundational knowledge of data science concepts, including data preprocessing and basic AI- ML.
Explored key data science techniques and their real-world applications.
AICTE & Edunet Foundation
Dec , 2024 - Jan, 2025
AI-ML With Green Skills
Developed Chatbot using NLP concepts and Fasttext model.
Explored the application of machine learning algorithms for promoting green skills.
CERTIFICATIONS
Code Unnati Advanced course for AI-ML, DL, IoT, Computer Vision .
Google Cloud Career Launchpad Generative AI track .
NPTEL - Design and Analysis of Algorithm .
NPTEL - Software Engineering .
NPTEL - programming in Java.
NPTEL - Introduction to IoT
LANGUAGES English , Hindi , Gujarati
